* Bookmarks
  - ( ) {https://mrcjkb.dev/posts/2023-08-22-setup.html}.
  - ( ) {https://github.com/altermo/vim-plugin-list?tab=readme-ov-file}.
  - ( ) {https://github.com/GoldsteinE/nixos/tree/master/dotfiles/.config/nvim}[Max].

* General
  Nightly is so much better dude. It's bright and shit and plugins work way better.
  And `:e` doesn't just fucking die lol.
* Functionality
** Tabs
   - `:newtab` to create new tab.
   - `gT` or `gt` scrolls tabs.
   - ( ) colors
   -- `TabLineFull` is supposedly responsible for this stuff but changes to it don't seem to affect shit.
   -- ( ) Probably some plugins are responsible.

* Keys
** Spell
   - `zg` - spell add.
   - `z=` - spell correct.
** Fold
   - `zm`, `zr` - fold more/less.
   - `zx` - reload folds.
   - `zMzv` - fold all but cursor.
** Marks
   - `'` - jump to prev selection, prev edited, jumped from - whole lotta stuff!
** Etc
   - `C-t` - jump up the tag stack - e.g. reverse `gD`.
   - `C-g` - show buffer stat like file path, line, col, etc..
   - `gx` - open selection with `xdg-open` - e.g. open url's.

* Commands
  - `:?a?;/b/g//d` exec command over range. See {https://github.com/markonm/traces.vim?tab=readme-ov-file}[traces.vim].
  - more stuff.
* Folds
  Treesitter folds are pretty nice. Not as nice as LSP but they do work.
  Problem with them, is that they break when treesitter breaks, making editing quite uncomfortable. Also the drop on formatting.
  @code lua
  vim.opt.foldmethod = "expr"
  vim.opt.foldexpr = "nvim_treesitter#foldexpr()"
  @end

* Nix
** Wrapping
*** General
   Kinda weird, as all things should be. There is no documentation on this currently.
   Use `packages.neovim = pkgs.wrapNeovimUnstable pkgs.neovim-unwrapped (pkgs.neovimUtils.makeNeovimConfig { };` to make a wrapper.
*** Plugins
    For `makeNeovimConfig`:
    @code nix
    plugins = [
      {
        plugin = pkgs.vimPlugins.neorg;
        config = "lua require('neorg').setup { load = { ['core.defaults'] = {} } }";
        optional = false;
      }
    ];
    @end
    Remember to include all dependencies.
*** References:
   - {https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/master/pkgs/applications/editors/neovim/utils.nix#L27}[makeNeovimConfig].
   - {https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/master/pkgs/applications/editors/neovim/wrapper.nix}[wrapNeovimUnstable].

* ( ) Rewrite
  Do the plugins thing from lazy, where plugins module is imported and exports everything as a table.

* Plugins
** TODO
   - ( ) {https://github.com/mhinz/vim-startify}[starify]
   - ( ) {https://github.com/stevearc/oil.nvim}[oil.nvim]
   - (_) {https://github.com/ecthelionvi/neoswap.nvim}[NeoSwap]
   - (_) {https://github.com/saifulapm/chartoggle.nvim}[chartoggle]
** (-) diffview.nvim
   {https://github.com/sindrets/diffview.nvim}[Repo].
   Adds a diffview and tools for working with it.
** (?) sibing-swap
   {https://github.com/wansmer/sibling-swap.nvim}[Repo].
   Works in weird ways idk.
** (x) langmapper
   {https://github.com/Wansmer/langmapper.nvim}[Repo].
   Doesn't like being run alongside {:nvim:# which-key} - later needs some configuration to support that.
   - ( ) more configuration.
** ( ) nvim-lint
   {https://github.com/mfussenegger/nvim-lint}[Repo].
   Async linting, complementary to builtin LSP support structure.
   {https://github.com/mfussenegger/nvim-lint?tab=readme-ov-file#available-linters}[Available linters].
** ( ) conform.nvim
   {https://github.com/stevearc/conform.nvim}[Repo].
   Can do range formatting, injected language formatting, minimal diff extraction - i.e. better formatting.
   But do I actually need it? Do this in a branch to check out and maybe revert immediately.
** sitjoin
   Fun stuff but doesn't support most languages I use.
   {https://github.com/AndrewRadev/sitjoin.vim}[Repo].
** cosco
   I need this. But again where are all my languages?
   {https://github.com/lfilho/cosco.vim}[Repo].
   Got a lua rewrite in {https://github.com/jumas-cola/cosco.nvim}[here].
   Example of a {:lazy-nvim:}[lazy] load in my configuration.
   - (x) Try it out!
   - (=) Gotta make some PRs for my languages.
   - (_) Apparently there is another plugin called `tree-setter`. Can't find it though. Too unpopular.
** haskell-tools
*** ( ) dap
    Am I retarded? {https://github.com/mrcjkb/haskell-tools.nvim/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#dap}[Source]
** UFO
   Got a branch but man does it suck ass.
   But LSP folds are pretty good, ngl.
** Telescope
   {https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim}[Repo].
   Got like 1000 functions.
*** TODO:
    - (?) bind for `jumplist`?
    - ( ) swap binds for buffers and file browser
** which-key
   Supports marks, registers, spelling (`z=`), etc.
   Works kinda good. Hope to improve my workflow with this thing lol.
   Pretty extensible: {https://github.com/folke/which-key.nvim?tab=readme-ov-file#%EF%B8%8F-configuration}[repo]
** {:neorg:}
** {:lazy-nvim:}
** {:treesitter:}
