* Intro
  This post is a reflection on my homelabbing experience so far. Everything I've
  done and am planning to do is for the love of the sport, so what others might
  call unnecessary complexities I would see as a learning experience or an
  interesting problem to solve.
  Obviously, the "right" homelabbing solution is to just run a single rented
  Debian box with whatever you need set up there, but that's not what I'm
  looking for. My goal would be to create a devops playground on mostly local
  servers, that would allow me to try different approaches to management and be
  instrumental in completing real world tasks.
  On of the main goals in my homelab restructuring is minimizing chores,
  achieving a more ephemeral digital infrastructure, improving resilience and
  increasing my lab's underlying complexity without it becoming unmaintainable.

* Ingress
  My previous approach was setting up my residential router as an ingress, with
  a static IP from my internet provider. I wouldn't recommend doing that
  because:
  - You reveal your personal IP address, which can be used to estimate your
    location, track your internet usage and otherwise invade your privacy.
  - Residential network providers may have limited features. E.g. reverse DNS
    lookup is often unavailable, making running a private email server
    unfeasible.
  - Your ingress configuration is limited to what your router's software and
    hardware can do. Though, you can mitigate the later issue with installing
    different operating system (e.g. openwrt) on your home router or dedicating
    a purpose-built machine to routing your traffic.

  What I'm looking for trying out is dedicating a rented server to the purposes
  of running some of my networking components:
  - An outgoing proxy;
  - An ingress;
  - A WireGuard server.

  With this setup I can hide my residential IP address, improve configurability
  ans scalability, run a proper K8S ingress node. Doing this requires careful
  planning and a little bit of terraform.

  Some possible issues include:
  - No API control from my DNS provider, which results in a chore of manually
    changing DNS target on every ingress rollover.
    Solution to this could be using DNS provider as a proxy and configuring all my
    DNS somewhere else.
  - Connectivity issues due to government lock downs.
    Modern hosting platforms offer excellent uptime, but I did experience
    externally caused connectivity issues more than once. Rolling over the server
    quickly and often could be the solution, but the server's role in the
    network makes downtime extremely unpleasant.


* High Availability Cluster


* Networking automation
  programmable networking wherever possible

* Bare metal server and worker node separation
  bare metal management separated from data plane configuration (e.g. nixos vs k8s over smth)
  other tips on setting up the data plane
