* Overview
  This Document provides sectioned list of higher-level tools and concept used
  in deploying and managing software (i.e. ops).

* Glossary
  *Terminal farm* - infrastructure designed to provide centralized managed
  environment for developers and engineers, control access to restricted network
  segments.

* Container Orchestration
** Kubernetes
*** Kind
*** Rancher
*** K3s

** Nomad
   > {https://developer.hashicorp.com/nomad}[docs]

** Docker
*** Compose
    Focused on development, test environments.

*** Swarm
    Like compose but with etcd, secrets and configs. Easy to migrate to from
    compose.

** Mesos

** Borg

* Kubernetes tooling
** operators
   Resources managed by Kubernetes and acting on the cluster. E.g.
   `cassandra-operator` via `k8ssandra`. Frequently used to manage more
   complicated deployments and allow to build custom management logic over what
   Kubernetes has to offer.

** cert-manager

* Distributed storage
** NFS
** Gluster
   > {https://docs.gluster.org/en/latest/}[docs]

** Ceph
   > {https://docs.ceph.com/en/reef/}[docs]

** For Kubernetes
*** Rook Ceph
*** Longhorn
*** OpenEBS

* Networking
** Service Discovery
*** Consul
    > {https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul}[docs]

* IaC
** Terraform
   > {https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform}[docs]
   {:terraform:}

   CRUDL of resources with API/FS/etc requests based on difference between
   desired and existing states.

** Ansible
   > {:ansible:}

   Python wrappers above shell commands.

** Pupet
** Chef
** Salt

* Security
** Consul
   > {https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul}[docs]

** Vault
   > {https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs}[docs]

** Kubernetes Secrets

* Distributed KV
** Etcd
** Consul
   > {https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul}[docs]

* Observability
** Tooling
*** Grafana

** Metrics
   Arbitrary key-value pairs representing the state of something.

** Logs
*** Syslog

** Traces
   IDs assigned to operations between multiple logs. Allow tracing of operations
   between multiple components/services.

** Storage
*** Loki
*** VictoriaMetrics

* Virtualisation
** Hypervisors
*** KVM
*** libvirt
*** VirtualBox
** Orchestrators
*** Vagrant
    > {https://developer.hashicorp.com/vagrant}[docs]
    > {:vagrant:}

    Centered on creating dev environments, i.e. docker compose.
*** OpenShift
    > {:openshift:}

    Enterprise-grade VM orchestration.
