* Terminals and pseudoterminals
  These files in `/dev` represent different types of terminals:
  - `/dev/tty*` – physical consoles;
  - `/dev/ttyS*` – serial connections;
  - `/dev/pts/*` – pseudoterminals. 

** Pseudoterminals Pseudoterminals allow to build terminal emulators and use them instead
   of a real terminal, where an application expects a terminal device. Pseudoterminal
   consists of 2 parts:
   - A `ptmx` part which is a leader for the pseudoterminal. This end is used to emulate
     the user input and read back the program output.
   - A `pts` is a secondary end. This part is given to an application that needs a
     terminal.

   Notable programs using pseudoterminals:
   - `ssh`/`sshd` - pairs two pseudoterminals and transfers data between them over the
     net.
   - `screen`/`tmux` - use a pseudoterminal for every client.
   - `expect` - allows user to script input into an interactive program.
   - `script` - records terminal sessions

** Terminal signals
   - `SIGTTIN` – a background process tried to read from a terminal.
   - `SIGTTOU` – a background process tries to write to a terminal when the `tostop` flag
     is set or a background process asks to send it to the foreground.
   - `SIGTSTP` – a default response to a `C-Z` pressed combination.

   The noncanonical programs such as vi, emacs and less, need to handle all the above
   signals in order to reset terminal settings back and forth, redraw a terminal content
   and place the cursor in the right place.
